Hi there. This video is going to be
a very quick introduction to the Emacs editor
which is one of the standard editors on
the NIF system and in fact most Unix
systems. It's a very old editor but it
has a ton of functionality once you get
used to using it. There's definitely a learning
curve to using Emacs but it's, once you
learn it, you can do lots and lots
of different things. Now you may have to
bear with me in this video because I
am not an Emacs user myself. I use
VIM primarily, so I may not understand quite
some of the commands I'm about to try
to show you. But we will do the
best we can the best we can with
this. So if we type emacs and then
hello dot c will open up the file.
You can go around the file with the
arrow keys, you're already ready to type, you
can just type something else, print f and
then hello one or something like that. I
think if you wanna set it so that
it makes your indentation four characters, you have
to do that in a settings file. And
then you can, you can, just do the
change, make the changes you want and save
it. How do you save in Emacs? Well,
you do, you use what we call the,
actually in this case I believe use control
to save. So it's actually control x and
it'll say what the command that you're starting
down here is and control s will save
and that's how you save. To quit, you
do control x control c and you can
quit like that. So let's open it back
up again and notice that I did save
my work here and I can just go
and delete that if I want to. There
is a command to delete the entire line,
I just don't know what it is. But,
you'll notice up here that there is a
menu bar, up here like this and, it's
it's a little weird, that should not have
scrolled, but it's a little weird because there's
no way to use the mouse if you're
SSH ing in to do this. Actually there
may be, but, in this I don't know
exactly how to do this, to do that.
But what I do know is if you
type the f 10 key and in my
Mac I have to type function and then
f 10, it, brings up the options and
you can see down here it says, if
you wanna do, any of these various, things
you can do that. So if I type
o, it'll get me to option, it'll say
highlight active region, etcetera. If you ever get
in the middle of a command and want
to back out of it, control g will
go and go quit and go back to,
where you were before. So let's say I
want to, add line numbers to this. There's
another control key or another modifier key kind
of like control called the meta key. On
my Mac it doesn't work through SSH again,
but what you can do is you can
just type escape and that stands for the
meta key. So if you ever are looking
at Emacs tutorials or references and it says
meta, just know oh I have to hit
escape. And in this case we do escape
x, then it's going to say okay give
me like a written command and in this
case I think the written command is, what
is it for here? It's line num dash
mode and that should actually, there we go.
Now we've got line numbers in here. Okay,
there are various ways to jump around the
document. If you want to go to a
particular line, let's say we wanted to go
to line six, we can type meta which
is escape and then lowercase g and then
another g and it says go to line
and we can type six and it will
jump right to that line. If we wanna
actually search for something, we just type control
s and it does a search. So if
I wanna search for hello, there it is
and it comes up immediately that that's where
we wanna go to. So, and in fact
if you wanna type, let's say we wanted
to find just, o, control s and then
o, it will jump to the o and
if you keep hitting control s again, it
will go to the next, instance and then
wrap around if you don't find it. So,
that's the very very very basics for Emacs.
It's a great editor, I don't use it
much so that's why I don't really know
what I'm doing in here. You can open
multiple files at once, they're called buffers in
Emacs and it is very powerful. In fact,
there's an entire programming language list built into
Emacs so you can make your own commands
and make it do very very advanced things.
So anyway, right now I will do control
X, control C and it will ask me
if I wanna save it. Let's say I
save it and I type Y and it
brings you back to the terminal. Thanks.